---
title: "Week 9 - XSS (Cross-Site Scripting)"
date: 2025-06-03
categories: [study]
layout: single
author_profile: true
sidebar:
  nav: "main"
read_time: true
toc: true
toc_label: "On this page"
toc_sticky: true
---

# XSS: Cross-Site-Scripting
  > Cross-Site Scripting (XSS) is a technique that exploits client-side scripts to execute malicious code in the user’s browser.

  ## XSS vs SQL Injection

  | Category       | SQL Injection                | XSS (Cross-Site Scripting)                    |
  |----------------|------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
  | Target         | **Server**                   | **Client (User's Browser)**                  |
  | Main Purpose   | Manipulate the server's DB   | Execute malicious script on the user's browser |
  | Victim         | Server                       | **Users (Clients using the website)**        |
  
  ## What is a Client-Side Script?
  > Client-side scripts are programming languages executed in the user’s browser.
      e.g., HTML, CSS, JavaScript
  
  ## Attack Method
  > XSS occurs when an attacker injects malicious scripts into a web page, which are then executed in the browser of a user visiting that page. It is one of the most common vulnerabilities found in real-world websites.
  Example:
  ```
    <script>
      alert('XSS Attack!');
    </script>
  ```
  ## Tips for Writing XSS Vulnerability Reports
  > If someone reviewing your report asks, “Why is this vulnerability dangerous?”, it likely means the report was insufficiently explained.
  
  > A good report should not only describe the vulnerability but also explain the attack scenario, potential victims, scope of impact, and how to fix it.
  
# How Can Scripts Be Injected?
  ## 1. Stored XSS 
  > Stored XSS stores malicious scripts on the server so that another user later triggers them by viewing the stored data.
  
  > Example: An attacker posts a forum message containing <script> code, and the script executes when other users view the post.

  - Check whether the input is reflected back in the page
  - Test if special characters are being filtered e.g., < ' " > 
  - Try injecting standard script tags e.g., <script>______</script>

  ### Frequently Used XSS PoC Code:
  ```
    <script>alert('XSS');</script>
  ```
  Why is alert() commonly used?
  → It’s simple, visual, and easy to confirm execution.
  
  Other functions that commonly used for POC:
  - prompt()
  - confirm()
  - console.log()
  
  ## 2. Reflected XSS 
  > Reflected XSS happens when input data sent in the request is immediately echoed in the server response. The attacker crafts a URL with a script payload and tricks users into clicking it.
  ### GET vs POST Methods in XSS
  > Web forms typically use either GET or POST, and the method affects how feasible an XSS attack is.

  #### (1) GET Method
  - Request data is directly exposed in the URL
  - Users can easily send the request by simply clicking a link
  - XSS payloads can be injected directly into the URL
  Example :
  ```
  https://example.com/search?query=<script>alert('XSS Attack')</script>
  ```

  #### (2) Post Method
  - Request data is included in the HTTP body
  - It is not visible in the URL
  - The user must submit a form
  - The attack cannot be triggered through a simple link

  Example:
  ```
    <form action="https://example.com/comment" method="POST">
      <input name="botton" value="<script>alert('XSS Attack')</script>">
      <input type="submit">
    </form>
  ```
  > Since the user must manually enter data into the attacker's form and submit it, it’s difficult to deceive users in typical scenarios, making the attack more complex to execute.
  
  > In such cases, if the web page uses the POST method to handle data, you can try changing the request method to GET using Burp Suite to test its behavior.

  
  If it also works with the GET method:
  
  → This means the vulnerability can be exploited through a simple link
    
  → The risk level and likelihood of real-world exploitation increase significantly

















